skills/refine/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: refine
description: Refine epics and stories through cross-functional analysis and requirements gathering
---

# Refinement Skill

## Agent Delegation
You MUST delegate the requirements analysis, backlog refinement, and story breakdown tasks to the `agile-delivery-lead` sub-agent. Use their expertise to ensure stories are well-structured and provide clear business value.

## HARD CONSTRAINTS (NON-NEGOTIABLE)

- **INTERACTIVE MODE ONLY** — STOP after each phase and wait for the user to respond.
- **NO CODE READING** — This is a requirements refinement exercise.
- **NO SOLUTIONING** — Describe WHAT, never HOW.
- **--parent AND --description ARE MANDATORY** — All beads tickets MUST use these flags at creation.

## Workflow: Epic Refinement

### Phase 1: Title & Description
Critique the problem statement, scope boundaries, and user value. **STOP.**

### Phase 2: Acceptance Criteria
Refine existing AC for verifiability and edge cases. **STOP.**

### Phase 3: Gap Analysis
Identify cross-functional gaps (Security, Quality, etc.). **STOP.**

### Phase 4: Child Stories Breakdown
Propose a breakdown of 3-5 child stories. **STOP.**

### Phase 5: Execution
Create stories: `bd create --parent <epic-id> --description "<desc + AC>" "<title>"`

## Workflow: Story Refinement

### Phase 1: Description & AC
Ensure clear user value and testable AC. **STOP.**

### Phase 2: Gap Analysis
Check for error handling, data requirements, and edge cases. **STOP.**

### Phase 3: Breakdown Assessment
Determine if the story is small enough for one session (1-2 hours). If not, recommend breaking down into tasks. **STOP.**

### Phase 4: Execution
Create tasks or confirm "Ready for Dev".
`bd create --parent <story-id> --description "<desc + AC>" "<title>"`

## Constraints

- **INTERACTIVE MODE ONLY** — STOP after each phase and wait for the user to respond.
- **NO SOLUTIONING** — Describe WHAT, never HOW.
- **OBSIDIAN REFINEMENT**: All refinement artifacts and notes MUST be saved to Obsidian using `obsidian_create_note`.
- **LOCAL FILESYSTEM RESTRICTION**: Do not use local filesystem write tools (`write_file`, etc.) for documentation or refinement notes.

Commit message:

feat(commands): consolidate refinement commands and rename review command
Merges /epic and /story into a single /refine command that dynamically selects the workflow based on the ticket type in Beads. Updates documentation and the refine skill to handle this identification. Additionally renames /code-review to /review to resolve command conflicts with other extensions.

skills/refine/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: refine
description: Refine epics and stories through cross-functional analysis and requirements gathering
---

# Refinement Skill

## Agent Delegation
You MUST delegate the requirements analysis, backlog refinement, and story breakdown tasks to the `agile-delivery-lead` sub-agent. Use their expertise to ensure stories are well-structured and provide clear business value.

## Initial Step: Identification
1. **Fetch Ticket Details**: Run `bd show <ticket-id>` to retrieve the ticket's type (Epic or Story) and current status.
2. **Select Workflow**:
   - If type is **Epic**, follow the **Epic Refinement Workflow**.
   - If type is **Story**, follow the **Story Refinement Workflow**.

## HARD CONSTRAINTS (NON-NEGOTIABLE)

- **INTERACTIVE MODE ONLY** — STOP after each phase and wait for the user to respond.
- **NO CODE READING** — This is a requirements refinement exercise.
- **NO SOLUTIONING** — Describe WHAT, never HOW.
- **--parent AND --description ARE MANDATORY** — All beads tickets MUST use these flags at creation.

## Workflow: Epic Refinement

### Phase 1: Title & Description
Critique the problem statement, scope boundaries, and user value. **STOP.**

### Phase 2: Acceptance Criteria
Refine existing AC for verifiability and edge cases. **STOP.**

### Phase 3: Gap Analysis
Identify cross-functional gaps (Security, Quality, etc.). **STOP.**

### Phase 4: Child Stories Breakdown
Propose a breakdown of 3-5 child stories. **STOP.**

### Phase 5: Execution
Create stories: `bd create --parent <epic-id> --description "<desc + AC>" "<title>"`

## Workflow: Story Refinement

### Phase 1: Description & AC
Ensure clear user value and testable AC. **STOP.**

### Phase 2: Gap Analysis
Check for error handling, data requirements, and edge cases. **STOP.**

### Phase 3: Breakdown Assessment
Determine if the story is small enough for one session (1-2 hours). If not, recommend breaking down into tasks. **STOP.**

### Phase 4: Execution
Create tasks or confirm "Ready for Dev".
`bd create --parent <story-id> --description "<desc + AC>" "<title>"`

## Constraints

- **INTERACTIVE MODE ONLY** — STOP after each phase and wait for the user to respond.
- **NO SOLUTIONING** — Describe WHAT, never HOW.
- **OBSIDIAN REFINEMENT**: All refinement artifacts and notes MUST be saved to Obsidian using `obsidian_create_note`.
- **LOCAL FILESYSTEM RESTRICTION**: Do not use local filesystem write tools (`write_file`, etc.) for documentation or refinement notes.
