skills/implement/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: implement
description: Full implementation mode - end-to-end feature implementation with phased execution, parallel work streams, verification gates, and atomic commits per phase
license: MIT
compatibility:
  - runtime:any
  - vcs:git
allowed-tools:
  - Read
  - Glob
  - Grep
  - Write
  - Edit
  - Bash
  - TodoWrite
  - TodoRead
metadata:
  author: thoreinstein
  version: 1.1.0
---

# Implement

Execute complete feature implementations using a structured, phased approach with verification gates and atomic commits.

## HARD CONSTRAINTS (NON-NEGOTIABLE)

- **SCOPE IS LOCKED** — Only implement what is in the plan from `/analyze`. Nothing more.
- **NO SCOPE CREEP** — Do not implement work from other tickets, even if it seems related or helpful.
- **TICKET TRACKING IS MANDATORY** — Update ticket status (in-progress/done) as you work.
- **EPIC CLOSURE RULES** — Never close an epic while child tickets remain open.
- **COMMIT BEFORE CLOSE** — A ticket status can only be changed to 'done' AFTER the code changes for that ticket have been successfully committed.
- **VERIFY BEFORE COMMIT** — No code shall be committed until all verification steps (tests, lint, build, etc.) have passed successfully. If any check fails, you MUST resolve the issues and re-verify before attempting to commit.
- **NO --NO-VERIFY** — Never, under any circumstances, use the `--no-verify` flag with git commit. Pre-commit hooks must always run and pass. If they fail, fix the code. No exceptions, even if explicitly requested.
- **NO BRANCH CREATION** — Never create branches. The agent will already be on the appropriate branch when `/implement` is invoked. Do not run `git checkout -b`, `git branch`, or `git switch -c`. Work on the current branch.

### Scope Creep Self-Check

Before writing ANY code, ask:
1. Is this in the implementation plan? → NO = don't implement
2. Is this ticket in scope for this phase? → NO = don't implement
3. Am I adding something "nice to have"? → YES = note as follow-up, don't implement

If you discover related work, add it to "Discovered Follow-Up Items" and continue with scoped work.

## When to Use

- Building new features end-to-end
- Complex multi-component implementations
- Features requiring coordination across backend, frontend, and infrastructure
- Any implementation benefiting from structured phases and checkpoints

## Ticket Status Management (Beads Projects)

```bash
# Starting work on a ticket
bd update <ticket-id> --status in-progress

# Completing a ticket
bd update <ticket-id> --status done

# Verify epic children before closing
bd show <epic-id> --json  # All children must be status:done
```

### Status Update Rules

| Event | Action |
| ----- | ------ |
| Starting implementation | Mark parent ticket in-progress |
| Starting a child ticket in a phase | Mark child in-progress |
| Completing a child ticket | Mark child done |
| ALL children done → close epic | Mark epic done |

**NEVER close an epic while children are still open.**

## Phase Execution Loop

Every phase follows this exact sequence:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  PHASE EXECUTION LOOP                                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│   1. PLAN     → Define work for this phase                  │
│                 Mark phase tickets as in_progress           │
│                                                             │
│   2. WORK     → Execute the phase work                      │
│                 ⚠️  ONLY work in the plan — no extras        │
│                                                             │
│   3. VERIFY   → Run verification checklist                  │
│                 Tests pass, lints clean, build succeeds     │
│                                                             │
│   4. COMMIT   → Create atomic commit for phase              │
│                 Include ticket IDs in commit message        │
│                                                             │
│   5. UPDATE   → Mark completed tickets as done              │
│                 bd update <ticket-id> --status done         │
│                                                             │
│   6. PROCEED  → Only after commit + ticket updates          │
│                 Move to next phase                          │
│                                                             │
│   ⚠️  DO NOT PROCEED UNTIL COMMIT SUCCEEDS AND TICKETS      │
│       ARE UPDATED                                           │
│                                                             │
│   ⚠️  NEVER mark a ticket done until its changes are        │
│       committed.                                            │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Phase Overview

| Phase | Name | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| 1 | Requirements Analysis | Gather context, clarify requirements, set up tracking |
| 2 | Architecture Decision | Evaluate approaches, document decisions (if needed) |
| 3 | Parallel Implementation | Execute implementation across work streams |
| 4 | Integration | Integrate components, resolve conflicts |
| 5 | Verification | Run full verification checklist |
| 6 | Documentation & Cleanup | Update docs, clean up tracking, summarize |

See `references/implement-phases.md` for detailed phase instructions.

## Task Tracking Setup

Define ALL phases upfront before starting implementation:

```
Phase 1: Requirements Analysis
  - [ ] Gather context
  - [ ] Clarify requirements
  - [ ] Commit planning artifacts

Phase 2: Architecture Decision (if needed)
  - [ ] Evaluate approaches
  - [ ] Document decision
  - [ ] Commit architecture docs

Phase 3: Implementation
  - [ ] [Specific implementation tasks from plan]
  - [ ] Write tests
  - [ ] Commit implementation
  - [ ] Update ticket status → done

Phase 4: Integration
  - [ ] Integrate components
  - [ ] Commit integration

Phase 5: Verification
  - [ ] Run verification checklist
  - [ ] Commit fixes

Phase 6: Documentation & Cleanup
  - [ ] Update documentation
  - [ ] Create implementation summary
  - [ ] Document follow-up items
  - [ ] Verify all tickets closed
  - [ ] Final commit
```

## Verification Checklist

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  VERIFICATION CHECKLIST                                     │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  [ ] Static analysis clean on all changed files             │
│  [ ] All tests pass (unit, integration, e2e)                │
│  [ ] Linter passes with no warnings                         │
│  [ ] Build succeeds                                         │
│  [ ] Type checking passes (if applicable)                   │
│  [ ] Security review completed (if needed)                  │
│  [ ] Performance acceptable (no regressions)                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Epic Completion Gate

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  EPIC COMPLETION GATE                                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  [ ] ALL child tickets are status: done                     │
│  [ ] All phases in the plan are complete                    │
│  [ ] All commits are pushed (if applicable)                 │
│  [ ] No uncommitted changes remain                          │
│  [ ] Implementation summary documented                      │
│  [ ] Final commit completed (if needed)                     │
│  [ ] Follow-up items captured                               │
│                                                             │
│  ⚠️  COMMIT ALL CHANGES BEFORE CLOSING EPIC                 │
│  ⚠️  DO NOT CLOSE EPIC IF ANY CHILD IS STILL OPEN           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Constraints

- **Scope is the plan**: Only implement what `/analyze` planned
- **Atomic commits per phase**: Each phase MUST end with a commit
- **No skipping phases**: Follow the sequence even for small features
- **Verification gates**: Do not commit code or proceed to the next phase until all verification checks pass.
- **No --no-verify**: Never bypass git hooks. If hooks fail, the code is not ready to be committed.
- **Track everything**: Update ticket status in real-time, not at the end
- **Clean completion**: No uncommitted changes, all tickets closed
- **No premature closure**: Epic stays open until all children are done

## Implementation Output

At completion, document the implementation:

```markdown
## Implementation Summary

### What Was Built
[Brief description of the feature]

### Tickets Completed
| Ticket | Title | Status |
| ------ | ----- | ------ |
| ... | ... | done |

### Files Changed
- `path/to/file` — [what changed]

### Architecture Decisions
[Key decisions made and rationale]

### Testing
- [Tests added]
- [Coverage notes]

### Verification
- [ ] All diagnostics clean
- [ ] Tests passing
- [ ] Build succeeds

### Commits Made
- [Commit hash] — [Phase X: description]

### Known Limitations
[Any constraints or future work]

### Discovered Follow-Up Items
| Item | Related Ticket | Why Not In Scope |
| ---- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| ... | ... | Not in plan |

### Next Steps
[Follow-up tasks if any]
```

See `references/templates/implementation-summary.md` for the full template.

## Example

```
Feature: Add user notification preferences (EPIC-123)

Child Tickets: STORY-124, STORY-125, STORY-126

Phase 1: Requirements Analysis
  ✓ Loaded plan from {{BEADS_PLAN_DIR or "working/plans"}}/EPIC-123-plan.md
  ✓ Marked EPIC-123 as in-progress
  ✓ Committed: docs/specs/notification-prefs.md

Phase 2: Architecture Decision
  ✓ Decision: separate preferences table
  ✓ Committed: docs/adr/007-notification-preferences.md

Phase 3: Implementation
  STORY-124 (backend):
    ✓ Marked STORY-124 in-progress
    ✓ Created preferences table migration
    ✓ Added PreferencesService
    ✓ Committed: feat(STORY-124): add notification preferences backend
    ✓ Marked STORY-124 done

  STORY-125 (frontend):
    ✓ Marked STORY-125 in-progress
    ✓ Added preferences UI component
    ✓ Committed: feat(STORY-125): add notification preferences UI
    ✓ Marked STORY-125 done

Phase 4: Integration
  STORY-126:
    ✓ Marked STORY-126 in-progress
    ✓ Connected UI to API
    ✓ Added e2e tests
    ✓ Committed: chore(STORY-126): integrate notification preferences
    ✓ Marked STORY-126 done

Phase 5: Verification
  ✓ All tests pass (47/47)
  ✓ Lint clean
  ✓ Build succeeds

Phase 6: Documentation & Cleanup
  ✓ Updated API docs
  ✓ Created implementation summary
  ✓ Verified all children done: STORY-124 ✓, STORY-125 ✓, STORY-126 ✓
  ✓ Committed: docs: notification preferences
  ✓ Marked EPIC-123 done

Implementation complete!
```

Begin by loading the implementation plan and marking the ticket as in-progress.

**Remember: The plan is the scope. Do not exceed it.**

Commit message:

refactor: update core technical skills with sub-agent delegation
Refactors 'analyze', 'commit', 'implement', and 'rams' skills to delegate high-stakes decisions and specialized investigations to appropriate sub-agents (principal-engineer, codebase_investigator, etc.).

skills/implement/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: implement
description: Full implementation mode - end-to-end feature implementation with phased execution, parallel work streams, verification gates, and atomic commits per phase
---

# Implement

## Agent Delegation
You MUST delegate complex architectural decisions and security-critical code implementations to the `principal-engineer` sub-agent. For system-wide dependency mapping and comprehensive feature implementation, utilize the `codebase_investigator`.

## HARD CONSTRAINTS (NON-NEGOTIABLE)

- **SCOPE IS LOCKED** — Only implement what is in the plan from `/analyze`. Nothing more.
- **NO SCOPE CREEP** — Do not implement work from other tickets, even if it seems related or helpful.
- **TICKET TRACKING IS MANDATORY** — Update ticket status (in-progress/done) as you work.
- **EPIC CLOSURE RULES** — Never close an epic while child tickets remain open.
- **COMMIT BEFORE CLOSE** — A ticket status can only be changed to 'done' AFTER the code changes for that ticket have been successfully committed.
- **VERIFY BEFORE COMMIT** — No code shall be committed until all verification steps (tests, lint, build, etc.) have passed successfully. If any check fails, you MUST resolve the issues and re-verify before attempting to commit.
- **NO --NO-VERIFY** — Never, under any circumstances, use the `--no-verify` flag with git commit. Pre-commit hooks must always run and pass. If they fail, fix the code. No exceptions, even if explicitly requested.
- **NO BRANCH CREATION** — Never create branches. The agent will already be on the appropriate branch when `/implement` is invoked. Do not run `git checkout -b`, `git branch`, or `git switch -c`. Work on the current branch.

### Scope Creep Self-Check

Before writing ANY code, ask:
1. Is this in the implementation plan? → NO = don't implement
2. Is this ticket in scope for this phase? → NO = don't implement
3. Am I adding something "nice to have"? → YES = note as follow-up, don't implement

If you discover related work, add it to "Discovered Follow-Up Items" and continue with scoped work.

## When to Use

- Building new features end-to-end
- Complex multi-component implementations
- Features requiring coordination across backend, frontend, and infrastructure
- Any implementation benefiting from structured phases and checkpoints

## Ticket Status Management (Beads Projects)

```bash
# Starting work on a ticket
bd update <ticket-id> --status in-progress

# Completing a ticket
bd update <ticket-id> --status done

# Verify epic children before closing
bd show <epic-id> --json  # All children must be status:done
```

### Status Update Rules

| Event | Action |
| ----- | ------ |
| Starting implementation | Mark parent ticket in-progress |
| Starting a child ticket in a phase | Mark child in-progress |
| Completing a child ticket | Mark child done |
| ALL children done → close epic | Mark epic done |

**NEVER close an epic while children are still open.**

## Phase Execution Loop

Every phase follows this exact sequence:

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  PHASE EXECUTION LOOP                                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│                                                             │
│   1. PLAN     → Define work for this phase                  │
│                 Mark phase tickets as in_progress           │
│                                                             │
│   2. WORK     → Execute the phase work                      │
│                 ⚠️  ONLY work in the plan — no extras        │
│                                                             │
│   3. VERIFY   → Run verification checklist                  │
│                 Tests pass, lints clean, build succeeds     │
│                                                             │
│   4. COMMIT   → Create atomic commit for phase              │
│                 Include ticket IDs in commit message        │
│                                                             │
│   5. UPDATE   → Mark completed tickets as done              │
│                 bd update <ticket-id> --status done         │
│                                                             │
│   6. PROCEED  → Only after commit + ticket updates          │
│                 Move to next phase                          │
│                                                             │
│   ⚠️  DO NOT PROCEED UNTIL COMMIT SUCCEEDS AND TICKETS      │
│       ARE UPDATED                                           │
│                                                             │
│   ⚠️  NEVER mark a ticket done until its changes are        │
│       committed.                                            │
│                                                             │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Phase Overview

| Phase | Name | Description |
|-------|------|-------------|
| 1 | Requirements Analysis | Gather context, clarify requirements, set up tracking |
| 2 | Architecture Decision | Evaluate approaches, document decisions (if needed) |
| 3 | Parallel Implementation | Execute implementation across work streams |
| 4 | Integration | Integrate components, resolve conflicts |
| 5 | Verification | Run full verification checklist |
| 6 | Documentation & Cleanup | Update docs, clean up tracking, summarize |

See `references/implement-phases.md` for detailed phase instructions.

## Task Tracking Setup

Define ALL phases upfront before starting implementation:

```
Phase 1: Requirements Analysis
  - [ ] Gather context
  - [ ] Clarify requirements
  - [ ] Commit planning artifacts

Phase 2: Architecture Decision (if needed)
  - [ ] Evaluate approaches
  - [ ] Document decision
  - [ ] Commit architecture docs

Phase 3: Implementation
  - [ ] [Specific implementation tasks from plan]
  - [ ] Write tests
  - [ ] Commit implementation
  - [ ] Update ticket status → done

Phase 4: Integration
  - [ ] Integrate components
  - [ ] Commit integration

Phase 5: Verification
  - [ ] Run verification checklist
  - [ ] Commit fixes

Phase 6: Documentation & Cleanup
  - [ ] Update documentation
  - [ ] Create implementation summary
  - [ ] Document follow-up items
  - [ ] Verify all tickets closed
  - [ ] Final commit
```

## Verification Checklist

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  VERIFICATION CHECKLIST                                     │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  [ ] Static analysis clean on all changed files             │
│  [ ] All tests pass (unit, integration, e2e)                │
│  [ ] Linter passes with no warnings                         │
│  [ ] Build succeeds                                         │
│  [ ] Type checking passes (if applicable)                   │
│  [ ] Security review completed (if needed)                  │
│  [ ] Performance acceptable (no regressions)                │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Epic Completion Gate

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│  EPIC COMPLETION GATE                                       │
├─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│  [ ] ALL child tickets are status: done                     │
│  [ ] All phases in the plan are complete                    │
│  [ ] All commits are pushed (if applicable)                 │
│  [ ] No uncommitted changes remain                          │
│  [ ] Implementation summary documented                      │
│  [ ] Final commit completed (if needed)                     │
│  [ ] Follow-up items captured                               │
│                                                             │
│  ⚠️  COMMIT ALL CHANGES BEFORE CLOSING EPIC                 │
│  ⚠️  DO NOT CLOSE EPIC IF ANY CHILD IS STILL OPEN           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Prerequisites

1. **GUARD: No Acceptance Criteria → STOP**
   - If the ticket has no AC, inform the user they must refine before implementing.
2. **Load Implementation Plan**: Plans MUST be read from Obsidian using `obsidian_read_note`.
   - **Path**: `{{BEADS_PLAN_DIR or "working/plans"}}/<ticket-id>-plan.md`
3. **Epic Scope Guard**:
   - Epics with 4+ children require user confirmation to proceed in a single run.

## Phase Execution Sequence

Every phase follows this exact sequence:

```
Plan → Work → Verify → Commit → Update Tickets → Proceed
```

1. **Plan**: Define work for this phase and mark tickets as `in-progress`.
2. **Work**: Execute ONLY work defined in the plan.
3. **Verify**: Run tests, lints, and builds. No code shall be committed until all verification steps pass.
4. **Commit**: Create atomic commit for the phase. Git hooks must always run; never use `--no-verify`.
5. **Update Tickets**: Mark completed tickets as `done` AFTER successful commit.
6. **Proceed**: Move to the next phase only after commit and ticket updates.

---

## Constraints

- **Scope is the plan**: Only implement what `/analyze` planned
- **Atomic commits per phase**: Each phase MUST end with a commit
- **No skipping phases**: Follow the sequence even for small features
- **Verification gates**: Do not commit code or proceed to the next phase until all verification checks pass.
- **No --no-verify**: Never bypass git hooks. If hooks fail, the code is not ready to be committed.
- **Track everything**: Update ticket status in real-time, not at the end
- **Clean completion**: No uncommitted changes, all tickets closed
- **No premature closure**: Epic stays open until all children are done

## Implementation Output

At completion, document the implementation:

```markdown
## Implementation Summary

### What Was Built
[Brief description of the feature]

### Tickets Completed
| Ticket | Title | Status |
| ------ | ----- | ------ |
| ... | ... | done |

### Files Changed
- `path/to/file` — [what changed]

### Architecture Decisions
[Key decisions made and rationale]

### Testing
- [Tests added]
- [Coverage notes]

### Verification
- [ ] All diagnostics clean
- [ ] Tests passing
- [ ] Build succeeds

### Commits Made
- [Commit hash] — [Phase X: description]

### Known Limitations
[Any constraints or future work]

### Discovered Follow-Up Items
| Item | Related Ticket | Why Not In Scope |
| ---- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| ... | ... | Not in plan |

### Next Steps
[Follow-up tasks if any]
```

See `references/templates/implementation-summary.md` for the full template.

## Example

```
Feature: Add user notification preferences (EPIC-123)

Child Tickets: STORY-124, STORY-125, STORY-126

Phase 1: Requirements Analysis
  ✓ Loaded plan from {{BEADS_PLAN_DIR or "working/plans"}}/EPIC-123-plan.md
  ✓ Marked EPIC-123 as in-progress
  ✓ Committed: docs/specs/notification-prefs.md

Phase 2: Architecture Decision
  ✓ Decision: separate preferences table
  ✓ Committed: docs/adr/007-notification-preferences.md

Phase 3: Implementation
  STORY-124 (backend):
    ✓ Marked STORY-124 in-progress
    ✓ Created preferences table migration
    ✓ Added PreferencesService
    ✓ Committed: feat(STORY-124): add notification preferences backend
    ✓ Marked STORY-124 done

  STORY-125 (frontend):
    ✓ Marked STORY-125 in-progress
    ✓ Added preferences UI component
    ✓ Committed: feat(STORY-125): add notification preferences UI
    ✓ Marked STORY-125 done

Phase 4: Integration
  STORY-126:
    ✓ Marked STORY-126 in-progress
    ✓ Connected UI to API
    ✓ Added e2e tests
    ✓ Committed: chore(STORY-126): integrate notification preferences
    ✓ Marked STORY-126 done

Phase 5: Verification
  ✓ All tests pass (47/47)
  ✓ Lint clean
  ✓ Build succeeds

Phase 6: Documentation & Cleanup
  ✓ Updated API docs
  ✓ Created implementation summary
  ✓ Verified all children done: STORY-124 ✓, STORY-125 ✓, STORY-126 ✓
  ✓ Committed: docs: notification preferences
  ✓ Marked EPIC-123 done

Implementation complete!
```

Begin by loading the implementation plan and marking the ticket as in-progress.

**Remember: The plan is the scope. Do not exceed it.**
